# [jarmac.org](http://jarmac.org)
> "But you're not an organization!!"


This readme will serve as a catalog of all the information needed to start a blog on a (very) low end VPS. I'll leave out specifics, like what theme I'm running (although that [does sometimes make a difference in functionality](https://euer.krebsco.de/piwik-for-this-blog.html))

## Table of contents
- [Deploying](#deploying)
- [Transparency](#transparency)
- [Features](#features)
- [Repro](#repro)

## Deploying

As of now, this blog is hosted on an nginx server obtained through apt-get and configured the traditional way. I want to move it to nix management, especially as this server does not scale well at all and the more config I can sanely keep in version control the better.

When I see 'doesn't scale well at all' I mean I run oom just running nix-env -q. Attempts to compile it with the Boehm GC (as described in the wiki) doesn't work, as I can't even compile ZNC. What does work, very, very well is the ability to install locally on my own machine, export it to a closure, and then rsync it over to the machine and import it to the store, installing from there.

This can be accomplished [in two ways](https://nixos.org/nix/manual/#ssec-copy-closure), I do it the second way:

``` bash
local $ nix-store --export $(nix-store -qR $(type -p nginx)) > nginx.closure
local $ rsync . jarmac.org:~/closures/
local $ ssh jarmac.org

jarmac.org $ nix-store --import < nginx.closure
# yank the relevant line from the import output, should be the last line
jarmac.org $ nix-env -i /nix/store/8padg3vj1mbbx9kcph41xqfy130xhgac-nginx-1.11.5
jarmac.org $ which nginx
~/.nix-profile/bin/nginx
```

I've done exactly this to get znc and nginx running. This more than likely could be placed into some default.nix file so that instead I can just push that, and execute it with nix-build.

Further, while I will be using pelican (moving from jekyll, both static site generators), I  will be using [piwik](https://github.com/piwik/piwik), just so I can visualize the reality that I'm posting to /dev/null.

I aim to keep as much deploy logic locally as possible, including login credentials (another reason to use RSA keys!) The only thing I did on the remote server is create a symlink from /usr/share/nginx/www to where it is pushed to.

I've considered git as a deployment model instead but I know octopress has growing pains from adopting that. I don't like pain.

## Transparency
I aim to make this process as transparent as possible, excepting secrets and server details. So I'm removing the Makefile and fabfile.py, which are both autogenerated and look like files I won't ever be changing. If I make any notable changes, I will likely include them here. I will definitely be modifying pelican's configuration, so it's in here.


## Features

- Pelican
- Piwik (pending)


## Repro
I do not suggest git cloning this. I'd rather you read this document, specifically [deploy](#deploy) as that is how I do everything that isn't blog writing.

First, you need either a shared hosting provider or a VPS of your own. I'm currently using Ramnode for a (very) cheap VPS, as my needs are miniscule. I do not like how locked down shared hosting is, and I don't really want to play ball with cpanel if I can help it.

I use [markdown-mode](https://github.com/jrblevin/markdown-mode), and [pelican-mode](https://github.com/qdot/pelican-mode) to make things convenient. Pelican-mode is quite old, but it still works fine, thanks to the fact that pelican uses plain old makefiles as the standard interface to do things.

The theme I use is blue-penguin. To use a theme, download it, and install it with ``` pelican-theme -I $theme ```. Then edit your $PELICANOPTS in the makefile (not versioned here) to use the theme, ie:

``` make
PELICANOPTS=-t blue-penguin
```

Currently trying to set up [Piwik-3.0.0](https://github.com/piwik/piwik/tree/3.0.0#requirements) as well. It needs php5, mysql, and some bridge, be it MySQLi or PDO. I just used whatever aptitude gave me. I used nix to send over php5 and mysql, but since there was no php5-mysql derivation, I resorted to aptitude. We'll see if theres any madness, but I don't expect any.

Piwik is easy to install by following these instructions. I'm uncomfortable setting it up so that it is internet facing, but that is what we have ssh forwarding for.
First, create an nginx directive to forward piwik to:

``` nginx
        location /piwik {
                alias /home/ajarara/piwik/;
                autoindex on;
                allow 127.0.0.1;
                allow ::1;
                deny all;
        }
```
This makes it so that only processes on the machine itself can talk to it. (Later on, we'll set PIWIK_URL='http://localhost:80/piwik/')



SSH tunneling is one of my favorite things to do. It's so cool!

The first number is the port assigned locally, so unless you want to invoke sudo everytime you invoke a tunnel, don't use any privileged ports.

``` ssh
Host piwik.jarmac.org
    Hostname jarmac.org
    LocalForward 9876 127.0.0.1:80
```

That's it! You'll still have to log in, but that's just an added layer of security.

!!PHP!!
Well, that's not all you have to do. [Setting up piwik itself is quite easy!](https://piwik.org/docs/installation/#getting-started)

# TODO
Ramnode's servers limit me to updating from their own mirrors, but their mirrors are _ancient_. PHP 5 is the newest they've got, and 7 is recommended for use by piwik, and I can see why, at this point, I'm paging out to swap often. I want to move all this to Linode on a NixOS vps. It is possible to do so, but if they start supporting it officially I will switch ASAP. As for now, I'll disable piwik.
